>> One of the most important
studies was the Good Friday
Experiment, and it was
about whether psychedelics
in religiously-inclined people
in a religious setting could
help them have a religious,
mystical experience.
And 20 students from
Andover-Newton Theological
Seminary went into
Boston University Chapel,
and half got psilocybin
and half got a placebo.
The minister was
Reverend Howard Thurman,
who was Martin Luther King's
mentor, because Martin Luther
King got a PhD at
Boston University,
and he permitted
that to take place.
And the study showed
that people did have--
who had the psilocybin--
they had a mystical experience.
Nine out of the 20 people
had a mystical experience,
and 8 out of the 9
had the psilocybin.
So it was proven.
But then in a
tragedy, Walter Pahnke
died in a scuba diving
accident in 1971.
And in the mystical
literature, the real test
of a mystical experience
is called the fruits test.
You know, is it positive
in people's lives?
You can describe all
sorts of experiences,
but really, the fruits
test is the key, final step
to evaluate the validity
of a mystical experience.
And I became interested in
doing a long-term followup
to the Good Friday Experiment
because I thought, here,
this is now the fruits test.
I can ask people,
roughly 25 years later,
what they think
about the experience.
And at the same time, I realized
that Walter Pahnke probably
would have done this
if he hadn't died,
but because he had died,
nobody was doing this.
And I didn't need permission
from anybody to do it.
I did go to Andover-Newton
Theological Seminary,
and I said, I'd like to
do this long-term followup
with your students,
could I put something
in the alumni newsletter?
And they refused
to let me do that.
And they said, we don't
want to talk about this.
I said, this is one of
the most important studies
in the history of religion ever
done, you're a seminary school,
it was with your students, how
could you not want to help me?
Now, this was, of course, during
the Ronald Reagan, Nancy Reagan
escalation of the drug war time,
and so they refused to help me.
So I ended up--
out of frustration, I went to
the library at Andover-Newton,
and I said, let me just see if
the Good Friday study is there.
It wasn't part of the library.
They didn't even have it there.
And I just started wandering
around a little bit,
and then I stumbled,
somehow or other,
on several catalogs of
students from Andover-Newton
that were their
alumni catalogs that
had their names and
addresses and the years
that they were there.
So I picked everybody
that could conceivably
have been in school in 1962
and wrote hundreds and hundreds
of letters to all these people.
And I got three
postcards back saying
that they'd been in the study.
And then, they eventually led
me to 19 out of the 20 people.
So I identified 19
out of 20 people.
And my parents were willing
to fly me all over the country
to interview different people
to see what they had to say.
And what I found was
that those people that
had had the psilocybin
had very strong memory
for parts of what happened.
And those people that had the
placebo, it was like, yeah,
I was in that experiment,
but they couldn't-- they
didn't have the
vividness of the details.
So it was, first off, that these
experiences with psychedelics
are profound and they have an
unusual impact on our memory
and how we recall them.
They're somehow very vivid.
And then, I also found
out what I thought, later,
was the key to the 1960s, which
was that these people that
had the mystical
experience described
how it impacted their lives.
And they said that the
sense of connection,
the sense of unity--
that it did make them
more compassionate
about other people, more
tolerant of other people's
religions, less
fundamentalist, more spiritual.
That it helped them to look
at the struggles of the day.
It reduced their fear of death.
And when they saw the
protests about the Vietnam War
or environmental movements
or all these things,
they participated more
in these protests.
And that made me realize
that it was psychedelics gone
right that really
caused the backlash,
and it reaffirmed the
value of psychedelics.
So that was the first research
I ever did in my whole life,
and that was really something
that profoundly impacted me,
because these people that I
talked to validated that it
was a mystical experience.
Many of them had had
non-drug mystical experiences
before that, and that they
had described to me, though,
that they preferred the non-drug
mystical experiences that they
had had either before
or after the psilocybin
because they were more
uniformly positive.
And they described how they
had a lot more difficulties
during the experiment than
was revealed by Walter
Pahnke in the dissertation.
And then what I discovered
was really disappointing
was that there was
one person that
had gotten so inspired by
Reverend Howard Thurman's
discussion, about how
you need to tell people
there's a man on the cross
and it's your obligation
to spread the word and
to act in that way,
that he decided to
leave the chapel
and run down Commonwealth
Avenue, which is
right in front of Marsh Chapel.
And Huston Smith and Timothy
Leary went after him, just
to save him from being killed
by a car crash and stuff,
and they managed to capture him.
But then he didn't want
to go inside again,
and so they gave him
a shot of Thorazine
and brought him back in.
And that appeared nowhere,
anywhere, in the study
or in the write-up or
in the news reports,
and also that people's difficult
experiences were underplayed
in the dissertation I thought.
So I think it's
important to recognize
that these drugs cause
people to sometimes feel
they're going crazy
or feel they're dying
or that they need support
during these experiences.
You can imagine a rocket
ship going to the moon
and you're blasting off, and it
helps if you have a seat belt,
you know, in all of this
energy as you're transitioning.
Or in a regular airplane,
that we need grounding,
we need support.
And so I realized that
another key to the '60s
was that part of the
reason psychedelics
went wrong in so many people
is that they were given
an overly-positive view
of you take these drugs,
you get enlightened, and
that's all that it takes.
And just take more drugs.
That's what I believed
until I saw it didn't work.
And so I think there's
been a lot of people
who were unprepared for the
challenges of psychedelics,
were evangelized into
doing these drugs,
and that did lead to a lot of
problems that a lot of people
had.
So I think it's essential when
we discuss psychedelics now
to talk about the
challenging experiences,
and that it's not all easy.
We do psychedelic
harm reduction.
MAPS does psychedelic harm
reduction at Burning Man
and at festivals
all over the world.
And one of our main
principles is "difficult
is not the same as bad."
And I think a lot of
people really confuse that,
and they think these
are party drugs
and I'm going to
have a good time,
and then if it gets
difficult, that's bad
and I got to shut
it down, instead
of realizing that
when it's difficult,
that's sometimes the most
important material you
need to pay attention to.
But you need support to do that.
And so I think this
underemphasis in the Good
Friday Experiment
of the difficulties
left a lot of people unprepared
and didn't really enable
them to understand these
difficult experiences
in a different context.
And I think that's where,
with psychedelic therapy
right now, we prepare people
in a much different way
and really talk about how a
lot of the kernels of wisdom
will come wrapped in these
very difficult experiences.
I'd say the difference
between recreational use
and therapeutic use is,
in recreational use,
you're trying to have as good
a time as you can while you're
doing the drug, and then it
fades; and in therapeutic use,
you're trying to have an
opening to whatever happens
and you're trying to bring
back lessons and integrate them
in your life so that
your baseline is changed.
And that's, of course, how
we approach therapeutic use
of psychedelics.
It's not about the
experience as much
it is about what you bring
back from the experience.
And the goal is to make it
so that you don't need drugs,
in a sense, that the drugs are
to help you to not need drugs.
With recreational
use, the drugs are
about taking more
drugs and more drugs.
And so I think we've got
this way in which we now--
even Timothy Leary
really helped develop
the idea of set and setting.
And so we understand it's
what your mental set is,
what you bring into
this experience,
as far as preparing for
what's going to happen.
And if you only want the fun
parts and something difficult
comes, you're going
to try to shut it down
and you could end
up being worse off
for months or years afterwards.
And with this idea
of the setting, too,
that you want to feel safe--
the first principle--
we have four principles
of psychedelic harm reduction.
The first is create
a safe space.
And so, the set and setting
concept is about that.
It's having a safe space where
you don't have to pay attention
to your physical survival
needs and you can go inward,
with your eyes closed-off and
in mental imagery as things are
coming up from the unconscious.
And then it's very crucial
that you feel safe enough
to do that, and you
become very vulnerable
and you become, pretty
much, incapable in some ways
of defending
yourself if somebody
were to come attacking you.
But you are protected.
So you've got a safe
setting, and your mental set
is about opening
to whatever comes.
Whether it feels painful,
or happy, or whatever,
it's just opened
up to all of that.
And then try to
process it, and that's
where the therapeutic
support comes in.
So this concept
of set and setting
has become crucial to our
understanding of how to do
psychedelic psychotherapy.
And I think that Stan has
talked a lot about how--
with his matrices-- that,
inevitable in all of us,
there are these traumatic
experiences of being born,
of how that feels
life-threatening.
And so, if you do psychedelic
psychotherapy long enough,
you will inevitably have
difficult experiences.
And it's not like your
psychedelic use has gone wrong,
it's you're getting to this
stuff that's deeply programmed
you in certain ways and you need
to make that more conscious.
So I think that
there's just so much
that we've learned
from the work of Stan
observing thousands
and thousands of people
doing LSD and the different role
for what the therapist does.
You know, the second principle
of our psychedelic harm
reduction is called
sitting not guiding,
and that, again, comes
from the approach
that Stan has developed.
Guiding means that,
somehow or other,
where the person needs to go.
If you're the therapist,
if you're the guide,
you know the territory, you
know where they need to go.
But it's not like that at all.
It's like they know
their own territory.
They have their own rhythms,
their own inner intelligence,
their inner healing
intelligence.
That's what we follow,
rather than lead.
So we're sitting with people.
We're accompanying them.
We're supporting them.
But we're not guiding them.
Their own unconscious
is the guide.
And the other-- the
third principle--
the fourth being "difficult
is not the same as bad"--
the third principle also
comes from Stan and his work,
and it's talked through,
not talked down.
So it used to be thought in
psychedelic harm reduction
that you bring people
to a safe place
and you just try to remind
them of how happy life can be
and here's a flower or whatever,
you try to talk them down away
from what's bothering them.
And Stan's whole approach
has been talk them
into what's bothering them but
you get them to wrestle with it
and talk about it and realize
help them handle it so you
talk through not talk down.
That the way of
the path of healing
is through the difficult
experiences not away from them
or around them.
So a lot of what we do
with the psychedelic harm
reduction and psychotherapy
has come from the lessons
that we've learned
from Stan Grof.
Yeah.
I would say that the reason
for these classifications
are political, not scientific.
They're not based on trying
to solve drug abuse problems.
And in fact, there's a quote
by John Ehrlichman, who
was President Nixon's
domestic policy advisor,
in an interview that he did.
I think it was late in the '70s.
And he talked
about the drug war,
and he talked about
how, for Nixon,
the principal enemies of
Nixon were the Civil Rights
movement and the hippies--
mostly hippies against Vietnam.
And what Ehrlichman said is that
we knew we couldn't criminalize
their beliefs or their
political actions,
but we could criminalize
the drugs that they used,
and so we identified
Blacks and Civil Rights
activists with heroin and
hippies with psychedelics,
and we exaggerated the
dangers of these drugs
for political purposes so we
could arrest their leaders,
we could disrupt their meetings,
we could put them in jail.
And so, the real
origins of the drug war
were persecution of people
with minority opinions
rather than about drug abuse.
Now, there were drug abuse
problems, but the proper--
I would say-- the most
effective solution
is honest drug education
and harm reduction
and support for people who
are problem users through drug
treatment rather than
using prohibition
in the criminal
justice system, which
has perverse
consequences from that.
And so we've learned a lot
about how these drugs have
been classified.
But really, it
doesn't have to do
with their potential for abuse.
It has to do with their
political considerations of how
they've been seen in society.
And so, what we're trying
to do with psychedelics,
and have been trying to do--
you know, I started
MAPS 32 years ago--
has been to reschedule
these drugs as medicines.
And what we've learned
from medical marijuana
and looking at attitudes
of American voters
towards marijuana
legalization for all purposes,
and also marijuana
for medical purposes,
is that medicalization
leads to legalization.
That people have been
fed such propaganda,
such scary propaganda
that they're
frightened of these drugs
and they're against them.
But when you show that
they can be medicalized
and that there are
certain contexts
where the risks are
outweighed by the benefits,
and then people can start seeing
more and more people that they
know or they've
heard about talking
about benefits,
and in particular,
with medical marijuana, where
they can see dispensaries,
where distribution
of the drugs is done
without gangsters,
without machine guns,
just in regular stores,
like liquor stores.
You know, we don't
see many gun battles
outside of liquor stores
these days, but in the '20s,
there was gun battles
about alcohol all the time
during Prohibition.
So I think that the
medicalization of psychedelics
will eventually lead towards
legalization, which is crucial
because we all have a
fundamental human right
to explore our consciousness,
and that that's
beneath the freedom
of the press,
or the freedom of assembly,
or the freedom of speech.
Underneath all of those
freedoms guaranteed
to us in the Bill of Rights
is the freedom of thought,
and psychedelics are about
the freedom of thought.
The freedom to experience
our own different levels
of consciousness.
So I think that's really what
we need to be getting to,
and it turns out that
these rights are actually
not guaranteed.
They are guaranteed
in the Bill of Rights,
but people implement
them in different ways.
And we're seeing a massive rise
of authoritarianism in the US
and all over the
world, and so I think
the need for psychedelics
and psychedelic
spirituality and
psychedelic psychotherapy
is greater than ever before.
I think that if
Stan Grof had not
stayed true to the
value of psychedelics,
that the psychedelic renaissance
might not be happening.
When the repression comes
down, sometimes there's
only a very few people that
are continuing the thread,
keeping the flame alive.
And we think about
that in the Dark Ages,
in terms of monks at monasteries
that kept knowledge alive.
In the Middle Ages,
in the Dark Ages,
there was just a
massive societal
forgetting about
things, but small groups
could keep the flame alive.
And so, what I found was, there
was so much enormous interest
in psychedelics,
in psychiatry from
the '40s to the '50s to
the '60s, and then when
the backlash came in 1970--
I mean, it started
happening before that.
The research started
being shut down in '66.
Sandoz stopped providing
LSD to researchers.
1966 was the last
time the National
Institute of Mental Health
supported psychedelic research.
Then this backlash
keeps on going,
and most of the
people that had done
work with psychedelics,
when that was taken out
of their hands, they
went into meditation
or to yoga or to any
number of different kind
of non-drug psychotherapies.
And a lot of them--
even Ram Dass had this
statement about how when you--
psychedelics are
like a phone call--
the phone rings, and then
when you get the message,
you hang up the phone
and you move on.
So most people that were
involved with psychedelics
moved on and talked about
non-drug alternatives,
and that was the dominant theme.
A lot of people got into zen
meditation, and zen at the time
was fairly anti-drug.
But Stan didn't do that.
Stan developed
holotropic breathwork,
and he developed a
non-drug way to produce
a state similar to LSD and
to classic psychedelics.
But in his public talks,
he would always acknowledge
the value of psychedelics.
So he was really this thread,
virtually the only thread,
that was still talking about
the importance of psychedelics.
I met Jean Houston
and Robert Masters.
They had a book, "Varieties
of Psychedelic Experience."
And this was, now,
in the '70s, and Jean
was doing a talk
in Tampa, Florida,
not that far from Sarasota,
Florida, where I was.
And so I brought a
copy of "Varieties
of Psychedelic
Experience" to her,
because there's this chapter
on the training of the guides
and I wanted to be
trained as a guide.
And so I brought
the book to her,
and I wasn't thinking
that she might think
I wanted it
autographed, you know,
I just wanted to ask
her about parts of it.
But she took the book,
and she autographed it
to "Rick, who can be psychedelic
without psychedelics."
And I was like, that is
not what I'm asking about.
But I felt that Stan, through
the holotropic breathwork,
and through the way in
which he would continue
to acknowledge the
value of psychedelics,
and through his publications--
"Realms of the Human
Unconscious" and on--
beyond that, he was able to
acknowledge and legitimize
through his brilliance, through
his theoretical formulations
about how to understand the
unconscious from what he'd seen
from psychedelic experiences.
Through all of that,
he was the one that
really kept the flame alive.
And then the way
in which he started
training other people in
holotropic breathwork--
most of the early
people that came--
so I was in the first
group that was formally
certified as holotropic
breathwork practitioners,
and this was from '88 to '91.
And we met every two--
we met for two weeks every six
months for six different times.
And most of the people
that were attracted to it
were really interested
in psychedelics,
and the holotropic
breathwork was
a tool similar to psychedelics.
So I felt that Stan's role
was absolutely essential
in providing a rallying
point, in a way,
for people to come to who
still valued psychedelics,
and even the fact
that he developed
a technique through
breathing that was
very much like psychedelics.
And so, without
Stan, I really don't
know where we'd be at today.
Well, responsible-- I
would say that humanity
is doing a very poor job
right now, in general,
of facing the
challenges before us,
because they're so frightening.
And when people are
scared, a lot of times
their rational mind
shuts down and they
try to repress information,
very similar to drug addiction,
where people are in denial about
the harm that they're doing.
They don't pay attention to it.
And so we have massive
climate change denial.
We have denial of
globalization, with a retreat
to authoritarianism,
fundamentalism, nationalism.
People are doing a
terrible job collectively
in addressing the challenges.
And so we see global warming
moving more and more, almost
irreversible in certain ways.
I mean, maybe technology
will help us later,
but it seems like there's just
a massive amount of repression
and denial.
And psychedelics, by
their very nature,
bring things that are
repressed to the surface,
and in a safe set and setting,
can help people process--
and in particular, MDMA--
help people process
scary, difficult emotions.
And so I think
psychedelics-- and by that, I
would include MDMA,
even though it's not
a classic psychedelic--
that they can really
help individuals
cope with the fears
that we're experiencing because
of the downward trajectory
of the world.
And that, then, once you
can cope with your fear,
we can look at solutions.
And I think technologically
there will be solutions.
The human mind is absolutely
brilliant in the things that
we've been able to create, but
they've-- sort of like opening
up Pandora's box-- they've
gotten out of control.
But I think we
can use technology
to help us if we have the
emotional and spiritual depth
to do so.
And psilocybin, MDMA, LSD,
all these psychedelics
can help us do that.
The other big thing, I
just want to mention,
is that MDMA has been
talked a lot about in terms
of couples therapy,
helping people
navigate challenging emotions.
One of the things
that we're looking at
is MDMA and ayahuasca
for conflict resolution,
for multigenerational
trauma, the traumas that
are passed down generation
to generation, sometimes
hundreds, thousands of years.
If you look at the
Sunni-Shiite conflicts,
that's been going on well
over almost 1,500 years.
It's just astonishing the
way these hatreds go down
generation to generation
to generation,
and I think psychedelic
psychotherapy can interrupt
that within one
generation, sometimes
within one psychedelic session.
We can bring up these deep, deep
repressed fears of the other
and process them.
So I think there's two
ways that psychedelics
can help with the current
crises that people are facing.
One way is by helping people
reach deep down in their psyche
to experience these mystical
senses of connection,
to know that we're
all connected.
And then, the other is
through healing the trauma
that people have grown up in.
And even if we don't
have it directly,
just the trauma of
knowing that animals
are dying, that species are
dying, that the Earth is
being polluted.
So if anybody's
paying attention,
they're traumatized in some way.
And psychedelics can help
us deal with those fears
and still look
positively at what
we can do to contribute
to make them better.
So I felt like devoting
my life to bringing back
psychedelic research was one
of the keys towards helping
humanity really
cope with change,
and also helping myself.
And I think that Stan has
talked a lot about it,
as has Albert
Hofmann, who invented
LSD and first
synthesized psilocybin,
about the role that psychedelics
can play in the current crises.
And there's also been another
solution, I would say,
which is what we've learned
from the astronauts.
A lot of the astronauts who've
been up in space and have
looked back at the
Earth from space
and realized that it's
a single organism.
That there are no clear
country boundaries.
That we're all in this together.
We're all part of this,
whatever, 14 billion years
of evolution.
That we're all in this together.
And many of the astronauts
have been spiritualized.
Edgar Mitchell, you know, and
the founders of the Institute
for Noetic Sciences.
Different ways in which--
when people grasp the
sense of the whole,
that has profound
political implications.
And it's a lot cheaper to
give somebody a psychedelic
than shoot them up to the moon.
Well, I think the framework
for the legalization
of psychedelics is
something that we're already
now currently
negotiating with the FDA,
with the Drug Enforcement
Administration,
with the European
Medicines Agency.
And I think the key thing
to say about the medical use
of psychedelics is that
it's psychedelic-assisted
psychotherapy.
It's not the drug
that's the treatment.
What's been considered to be
the most important advance
in psychiatric research
in the last 20,
30 years has been the
discovery of ketamine
for the treatment of
refractory depression.
It's a new mechanism, and
it works more quickly.
But I think a big
mistake is being made--
is that most people now who
are setting up ketamine clinics
think about ketamine as a
pharmacological treatment
and they deliver it
without psychotherapy,
without any kind of support.
And in fact, I've
heard of some people
who have gone for
ketamine therapy
and tell us that their
doctors are telling them,
don't pay attention
to these visions
that you're having, this is just
about electroconvulsive therapy
or resetting your brain.
This is just a
pharmacological treatment,
the stuff that's actually
coming up in your consciousness
is just a byproduct
of delusions.
Don't pay attention
to it, it's all
about the pharmacological
treatment.
So I'm very disappointed the
way ketamine is being rolled out
in the world, particularly in
America, without psychotherapy.
But how it should be managed
is really ketamine-assisted
psychotherapy, MDMA-assisted
psychotherapy, LSD-assisted
psychotherapy.
And so what's going to happen
once MDMA passes Phase 3
and we've demonstrated
that it's helpful for PTSD,
or psilocybin passes
Phase 3 and it's
helpful for treatment-resistant
depression or major depressive
disorder, is that
these drugs will
be approved in a different way
than other drugs are approved.
And the FDA has what's
called the REMS--
Risk Evaluation and
Mitigation Strategies.
So it's a regulatory
mechanism for the FDA
to develop specific policies
for the unique risks
of any new drug.
And so it used to be that
drugs would be approved
and any physician could
prescribe it for anything,
and that started changing with
the approval of thalidomide,
which was the drug
in the '50s and '60s
that was given to women
for morning sickness
and caused terrible
birth defects.
But it's later been
found that thalidomide
is very helpful in treating
certain kinds of cancers
and leprosy,
because constricting
blood vessels in some
cases can be a good thing.
And so thalidomide is
approved, but the physicians
have to have special
education, the pharmacists
have special education.
There's a brochure that
goes to the patients,
and there's a patient
registry so every patient who
ever gets administered
thalidomide is tracked.
And so far, there's been
no thalidomide babies
because of these extra systems.
So for psychedelics, because
it's psychedelic-assisted
psychotherapy, the only people
that will be able to prescribe
this drug and the only people
that will be able to be
in contact with the patients are
people that have been through
the training program that
the sponsors-- in this case,
MAPS or other groups--
for psilocybin--
the training program
in our psychotherapies.
And they're only
going to be drugs
administered under direct
supervision of the therapists.
They're not going to
be take-home drugs.
So it's really going to
be about the creation
of psychedelic clinics.
And eventually, these
clinics will be--
people will be cross-trained
to deliver MDMA,
to deliver psilocybin,
to deliver ketamine,
all in a therapeutic context.
And so we're anticipating
that'll happen in 2021.
That we'll have MDMA
approved as a medicine,
psilocybin approved
as a medicine.
And then we'll start setting up
all these psychedelic clinics.
And eventually, there'll
be thousands and thousands
of these clinics all over
America, all over Europe
and the rest of the world.
And what will start happening--
and what we've already,
actually, started
doing research--
is that you can bring in family
members to the treatment.
So we've just done--
it's super tiny,
but we've just done
a study called
cognitive-behavioral conjoint
therapy for PTSD
combined with MDMA.
So conjoint therapy
means couples,
and it's where one member of
the couple or dyad has PTSD
and it affects
their relationship.
And we've been able
to get FDA, and DEA,
and IRB approval to give both
members of the couple MDMA,
not just the PTSD patient
but the other person as well.
And we see great
reductions in PTSD,
and also improved relationships.
So the clinics will start
with the designated patients,
but you can think about
somebody who has cancer
or a life-threatening illness.
It affects them, but it affects
everybody around them too.
So the clinics start to
be with the patients,
expand to be with the
families, and then--
somewhere around 2030 or
so, what I think will start
to happen is that we'll
have people who want to do
psychedelics on their
own-- will go to clinics--
like a driver's
license test almost,
and they will have an
experience under supervision
in the clinics, and if that goes
well, then they get a license
and they can go
buy it on their own
and do it whenever they want to.
And if they do it on
the beach behind us
and they just strip
off all their clothes
and run naked screaming
at people and stuff
and they get busted,
then they get
punished for whatever they did.
But then they lose their
license to buy psychedelics
until they've completed some
sort of period of learning,
or whatever.
So I think we'll have
licensed legalization.
And that will happen, we
believe, in roughly 2035.
And then people will be
able to have free access.
But still, if they want to
do it in religious contexts--
we'll have more
religious freedom too.
The Native American
Church uses peyote,
but from a federal
perspective, you
have to have 25% Indian blood to
be part of the Native American
Church.
Now, the states, a lot of
them don't have those rules.
But this is the
only case where we
have religion limited by race.
But it's to protect, supposed,
American people from having
legal access to peyote.
So we'll have expansion
of religious freedom.
We'll have more
uses of ayahuasca.
Right now, certain ayahuasca
churches are approved
in the US-- the UDV--
the Uniao do Vegetal--
and also Santo Daime.
But most ayahuasca
that's used in America
is used in more
shamanistic settings
without formal connections
to these religions,
and that's all
technically illegal,
but there's no big prosecution.
Most of the people are
white, most of them
are well-connected, and
they're not getting harmed.
And so, I think there'll be an
expansion of religious freedom
and expansion of
medical use and we'll
have licensed legalization.
And I think the
last big, big step
is, how do you train
the young people?
What do you teach young people?
And how does that work?
And so, right now, what
we have for even alcohol--
well, alcohol is a
really good example,
because 23 states in America--
all states have
criminalized use by minors.
Different ages, 18 or 21.
But 23 states permit
parents to introduce alcohol
to their children
if they want to.
So I think what we'll end
up seeing with psychedelics
is that there will be a parental
override against prohibitions
to minors, and that gets us back
to the Native American Church
and the ayahuasca churches.
The way they run
their societies,
parents can introduce their
kids at different times,
according to which
kids feel ready or not.
And so I think that
we'll end up having
this licensed legalization
system for adults
and parental opportunity,
if they want,
to administer
psychedelics to their kids
as they're growing up however.
So it's basically a
family values plan
and is saying that
the family should
be in charge, not
the government,
and that will be
bipartisan support.
A lot of the, I
think, Republicans
can go for this
idea that families--
we want to empower families
to make their own decisions.
And so that's how I think
psychedelics will be regulated.